
                           DFX : GEOMETER

                     From the Destroy FX Labs!
              http://www.smartelectronix.com/~destroyfx/


   -- Geometer: Introduction --

   Geometer is a visually-oriented waveform geometry plugin. It
   lets you redraw your sound in many different ways.

   Geometer has a built in help system, where mousing over the
   various options will bring up explanatory text at the bottom
   of the plugin. I recommend using that instead of this help
   text, but it would be a good idea to read the "basic operation"
   section that follows before jumping in.


   -- Geometer: Basic Operation --

   The basic operation of Geometer is as follows:

   Step 1. Generate some 'landmarks' or 'points' on the waveform.
   This is just a list of (x,y) coordinates. The parameter called 
   "how to generate landmarks" and the slider below it control how 
   this happens; the various methods will be described later.

   Step 2. Do up to three operations on these lists of landmarks.
   These are controlled by the three buttons next to "how to mess 
   them up" and the three sliders below them.

   Step 3. Recreate the waveform using the points. This can also
   be accomplished in many ways, controlled by the "how to
   recreate the waveform" button and the slider above it.

   The other main thing to know about Geometer is that it processes
   sound using windows. Basically this means that overlapping 
   segments of the input are processed and then the ends are
   mixed together (cross-faded) to avoid discontinuities at the 
   edges that can cause clicks. You can adjust the size of this 
   window and the way that windows are cross-faded by using the 
   "window size" and "window shape" buttons. The size of the window
   is measured in samples. In most hosts (applications that you
   load your plugins into), you need to stop and restart the sound 
   before changes to the window size will take effect.

   At the top of the plugin there's a box that shows what's
   happening to your sound. The dark green line is the input 
   sound. The purple dots are the landmarks, and the light yellow 
   line is the output waveform. This display uses the input sound 
   as a source, but also operates when the plugin is stopped. 

   The sliders are labelled with a very short description of what
   they do for the current effect. If it says "????" then the slider
   does nothing.

   Geometer comes with a load of presets meant to show you how
   it can be used. Of course, some of these will sound bad if used
   on the wrong kind of input signal, so if it's not interesting, 
   try it on a different sound. Also be wary that the presets change
   the window size, and most hosts need you to restart the sound
   in order for that to take effect.

   Most of all, experiment!


   -- Geometer: Generating Landmarks --

   Here are the different ways to generate landmarks:

   ext 'n cross: This detects zero-crossings (when the waveform 
   crosses the x axis) and extremities (highest and lowest points 
   between zero crossings) and places points at those. Sometimes 
   you want to avoid making points on low-volume noise; adjusting 
   the slider changes what range of values is considered 'zero'. 
   Ext 'n Cross is a good all-around point generator.

   at freq: This generates points on the waveform at the given
   frequency. The frequency display is unrelated to normal measures
   (ie, hertz) and is dependent on the window size, so you'll just
   have to use your eyes and ears. Because the x values of points
   generated by 'at freq' don't depend on the input waveform at all, 
   some regeneration styles (especially 'sing') are crummy when 
   fed with 'at freq' points.

   random: This places points randomly on the waveform. The slider
   controls how many points are placed. Using 'random' to generate
   points will almost always result in noisy output. This is
   partially because different random points will be chosen when 
   the waveform is processed in separate overlapping windows.

   span: Generates a point, and then generates the next point
   a distance away that's determined by the height of that point.
   The slider affects how much the height influences the distance.
   Span is especially good with waveforms that have highly dynamic
   characteristics, like drums.
   
   dy/dx: Generates a point whenever the derivative (difference
   between the last and previous samples) is bigger than the amount
   indicated. The center of the slider is 0, where practically
   every point meets the criteria. dy/dx is also excellent for
   dynamic waveforms like drums and guitar strumming.

   level: Generates a point whenever the waveform crosses a level
   (specified by the slider) both above and below the origin.


   -- Geometer: Point Operations --

   none: If the op shows as an empty green square, then the
   points are left alone.

   x2: Doubles the number of points by placing a point between
   each adjacent pair. The height of the new points is
   determined unscientifically by its neighbors and the slider. 
   Sometimes there's no room for points, and those are simply 
   left out.

   1/2, 1/4: These thin the number of points by a factor of 1/2
   and 1/4. The slider doesn't do anything.

   longpass: If the point isn't a certain minimum distance from 
   the previous point, it's dropped. The distance is controlled 
   by the slider. Longpass is extremely useful for making sure
   that there are no really short intervals (which typically
   become high frequency noise), especially when used with
   the waveform recreation option 'sing'.

   shortpass: If the point is more than a maximum distance from
   the previous point, its height is set to zero. Not quite as
   useful as longpass, but who knows?

   slow: This spreads out the points by the factor set by the
   slider. Some points fall off the end of the window and are
   discarded. Depending on the window size and size of intervals, 
   this effect can result in a pitch change or a sort of
   stuttering effect ('DFX Bufferoverride').

   fast: This compresses the points along the x-axis, repeating
   from the beginning when it runs out. The amount of compression
   and repetition is controlled by the slider. Like slow, this
   can either change the pitch of the sound or make it stutter.


   -- Geometer: Recreating the Waveform --

   An "interval" is the space between adjacent pairs of landmarks. 
   When the space is referred to as an interval, it usually doesn't
   matter what the height values of the endpoints are.

   polygon: Draws straight lines between the points. Since the
   points become corners, this introduces some high frequencies,
   however, in general this is like a lowpass filter. The slider
   controls the slope of the lines; throw it all the way to the
   right to get a square wave.

   wrongygon: Like polygon, but the lines are drawn the wrong way.
   This has huge discontinuities and is much harsher than polygon,
   but can be 'dimmed' with the slider in the same way.

   smoothie: Uses smooth curves to interpolate between points.
   This results in a nice smooth lowpass. Turning the slider
   changes the exponent of the curve, which changes its shape
   dramatically.

   reversi: Reverses the contents (from the original wave) of each
   interval. This can create bizarre phasing artifacts with some
   window sizes. Try it with a low frequency of points on a large
   window with singing for input, for instance. (The preset
   'atonal singing' is a good example of this. Run it on some
   vocals and play with the frequency parameter...)

   pulse: Each point gets a little pulse, and the rest of the wave
   is empty. The slider controls the width of the pulses, and
   overlapping pulses do funny stuff. Generally a digitally harsh
   lo-fi sound.

   friends: Stretches the original wave in each interval to
   overlap and mix with the next interval (its 'friend'). This
   can give the impression of lowered pitch (if the points are
   spaced evenly) or do all sorts of other weird stuff. Try
   with large but unevenly spaced points for a 'DFX Scrubby'
   sort of effect.

   sing: This replaces each interval with one period of a sine
   wave. I suggest feeding it with something like 'span' or
   'dy/dx' on dynamic input like drums. Also, longpass can be
   used to reduce the noisiness of the output. Watch out, this
   setting is loud! If you move the slider to the left, then the 
   sine wave is used for amplitude modulation instead, resulting 
   in a totally different sound. (For this one, feeding with 
   'at freq' might not be so silly...)

   shuffle: This swaps around intervals randomly. The slider
   controls how far intervals can travel. Sounds best with
   large intervals and window sizes.


   -- Geometer : Trouble --

   Due to a bug in Wavelab 3, if you add Geometer to a track while it
   is playing, you won't hear any output until you stop and restart
   playing. It will work fine from then on. Other hosts may have this
   problem too, so try the same solution.

   When using really large window sizes (like 2^12 or bigger),
   Geometer's processing might occur less frequently than the rate at
   which the host processes audio buffers. This can cause an uneven
   processing load (spikes) that might max out your CPU. Use a smaller
   window size if you have this problem.


   -- Geometer : Info --

   Geometer was mostly made by Tom 7, though Marc did most of the
   painful GUI, MIDI learn, and chunk code. He also offered valuable
   suggestions and debugging help. (Thanks Marc!)

   'span' was suggested by Bram of Smartelectron:x.
   'friends' was invented when Jason Reed misunderstood what
       I meant by windowing.
   'some other effect' will be invented by you! Suggest away!
   

   You can use this plugin for free in your songs or live
   performances without paying us anything. You can even share
   it with your friends (though we prefer that you send them
   directly to our home page, link below!) or change the
   source code to make it do things differently. However, we
   ask that you do the following:

      - Let us know if you use the plugin in a song (use
        the message board below)
      - Consider making a donation at:
        http://www.smartelectronix.com/~destroyfx/donate.html
        (Go there for the cartoon, at least!)


   This software comes with absolutely no warranty, express
   or implied. Use at your own risk. See the file COPYING for
   full license terms. 


   If you have comments or suggestions for additions to be made 
   to Geometer, why not leave them on our message board?
   
   http://msg.spacebar.org/f/a/s/msg/disp/10


   Geometer is Copyright (c) 2002 Tom Murphy 7 and Marc Poirier
   Super Destroy FX: http://www.smartelectronix.com/~destroyfx/
